--- PAGE 1 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 1 of 8 
Cisco Unified Communications 
Manager 15 
 
Data sheet 
Cisco public

--- PAGE 2 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 2 of 8 
Contents 
Product overview .............................................................................................................................................................. 3 
What’s new with Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 ........................................................................... 3 
Ordering Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 ........................................................................................ 6 
Migrating Cisco Unified Communication Manager 10.x and newer versions (PLM-based licenses) to UCM 15 ............ 7 
IM&P Deployment Specifications ..................................................................................................................................... 8 
Cisco Capital ...................................................................................................................................................................... 8 
For more information ....................................................................................................................................................... 8

--- PAGE 3 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 3 of 8 
Cisco® Unified Communications Manager is the heart of Cisco collaboration services, enabling session 
and call control for video, voice, messaging, mobility, instant messaging, and presence. 
Product overview 
Over the past years, remote work has seen accelerated adoption. Analysts predict that in years to come, work will be a blend 
of in the office and remote. Key to a successful hybrid work model is empowering the workforce with the same collaboration 
capabilities they get in the office, from any work location. 
Telephony remains a critical part of doing business for many organizations and supporting remote work from a voice and 
unified communications perspective remains a top priority for Cisco. 
Cisco® Unified Communications Manager (UCM) is the core of Cisco’s collaboration portfolio. UCM has a rich feature set that 
supports calling, mobility, conferencing, messaging and features for remote workers.  Release 15 of UCM extends the product 
with major platform upgrade along with modern software architecture and several significant improvements. 
 
What’s new with Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 
Release 15 is the latest feature release in market leading Cisco Unified Communication Manager. This release will further 
extend Cisco Unified Communication Manager’s leadership through features that enrich user experiences, simplify 
administration workloads, enhanced security and enhanced business and operational insights through Webex Cloud-
Connected UC services. 
Release 15 brings improved experience for users and administrators, including: 
• Platform Upgrade* 
• Improved Webex App experience with persistent CUCM login flow* 
• Certificate based Multi Factor Authentication for RTMT*  
• Support for VG410 (BAT utility)* 
• Auto Provision of Webex App and Cisco Jabber Devices 
• Centralized Call History 
• Device Mobility Support for Webex App on VDI 
• iOS Local Push Connectivity for Calls 
• Borderless Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) Protocol 
• Emergency Calling for National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 
• RedSky E911 Location Services Support

--- PAGE 4 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 4 of 8 
Table 1 lists major features in Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 
Table 1. High-level features in UCM Version 15 
Feature Benefits 
Enhanced user experience 
Improved Webex App experience with 
persistent CUCM login flow* 
 
● Improved Webex App user experience resulting in end users not missing calls due to 
phone service disconnects. 
● Webex App refresh token renews automatically, and user is not logged out and doesn’t 
need to reauthenticate again 
iOS Local Push Connectivity for Calls* When an iOS device operates in a Wi-Fi constrained network with no internet connection 
such as, hospitals, cruise ships, airplanes, and so on, due to lack of internet connectivity, the 
device does not have access to the Apple Push Notification Service (APNS). 
Industry first and only Local Push Notification Service (LPNS) for calls has been introduced 
for iOS devices. It helps to minimize any delay as the push message is sent to the client 
through a persistent connection through the local WiFi, thereby allowing users to still 
receive a call even when the device does not have access to APNS.  
Auto Provision of Webex App and Cisco 
Jabber Devices 
 
In Unified Communications Manager, you can auto provision the Webex App or Cisco Jabber 
devices when new LDAP users are synchronized from Microsoft Active Directory. The Write 
back to LDAP option allows you to write the Primary DN chosen from Unified CM back to 
the LDAP server. LDAP attributes available for write back are: telephoneNumber, ipPhone, 
and mobile. 
Centralized Call History 
 
● Webex Calling for Microsoft Teams users can view the call history for their shared devices 
which are registered to the Unified Communications Manager 
● To use this feature, the Unified Communications Manager node must be onboarded 
through Webex Cloud-Connected UC. 
● Microsoft Teams users must use Webex Calling for Microsoft Teams integration. 
 
Borderless Computer Telephony Integration 
(CTI) Protocol 
Borderless CTI allows Webex App supports Desk Phone Control Mode/Extend and Connect 
Mode for clients connecting remotely (MRA users) without VPN. To use this feature, the 
Unified Communications Manager node must be onboarded through Webex Cloud-
Connected UC. 
Simplified administration  
Platform Upgrade* ● Core Linux transition for long term supportability and industry alignment 
● 32-bit end of life mitigation and removal of memory bottlenecks by moving to 64-bit 
application architecture 
● Provides protection, security, innovation and flexibility 
Support for VG410 (BAT utility)* 
 
● Medium-Density Analog Voice Gateway enabling an IP telephony solution to continue 
using traditional analog devices while taking advantage of the productivity afforded by IP 
infrastructure  
● Cisco VG410 Analog Voice Gateway now supported additionally with Bulk Administration 
Tool utility 
Certificate based Multi Factor 
Authentication for RTMT*  
● Phishing resistant cryptographic technique of using X.509 Certificates for authentication 
and access now introduced for RTMT, thus protecting against password compromise

--- PAGE 5 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 5 of 8 
Device Mobility Support for Webex App on 
VDI 
 
● The Cisco Unified CM Administration UI displays the HVD IP address, in addition to the 
thin-client IP address for the Webex Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) clients. This 
feature is supported from Webex App VDI version 43.2 onwards. The display of HVD IP 
address on the UI enables better serviceability and debugging. 
Certificate Revocation List Support 
 
● Unified Communications Manager supports Certificate Revocation List (CRL), where the 
Certificate Authority (CA) will have a list of digital certificates that have been revoked 
before their actual or assigned expiration date. To enable this feature, you must check the 
Enable CRL check box and enter the CRL Distribution Point URI from where the CRL files 
are downloaded. 
SRTP DTMF Interworking 
 
● Unified Communications Manager can invoke a hardware MTP (with SRTP DTMF 
interwork support) for a DTMF mismatch between secure endpoints and it passes 
through the media and now, the DTMF events that are sent between the parties as well. 
Cluster Software Location ● Finding the ISO files for upgrade or COP files for cluster nodes has been made easy, using 
the Cluster Software Location menu from the Cisco Unified OS Administration user 
interface. 
● You can also centrally manage the Software Location settings for all cluster nodes from 
the publisher instead of locally on each cluster node. 
Security and compliance 
FIPS 140* ● Release 15 is verified to embed FIPS 140 certified cryptographic module 
Improved security and compliance through 
Cisco’s Secure Development Lifecycle 
(CSDL)* 
● Release 15 has gone through Cisco’s CSDL process and is more secure in: 
◦ Administrative access security 
◦ Application security 
◦ Threat surface reduction 
◦ Logging and auditing 
◦ Web security (XSS, injection vulnerabilities)  
◦ Privacy and data security 
◦ Vulnerability management 
◦ Cryptographic support (X.509) 
Emergency 911 (E911) regulatory 
compliance*  
● Cisco UCM software, when installed using a United States time zone, proactively checks 
for the presence of a direct 911 dial pattern, creates it, and notifies an administrator to 
perform the required configuration or waive it where E911 regulatory laws are not 
applicable. 
● Cisco Emergency Responder provides advanced emergency calling to Unified 
Communications Manager. It assures that UCM will send emergency calls to the 
appropriate Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) for a caller's location, and that the PSAP 
can identify the caller's location and return the call if necessary. In addition, it provides 
local onsite notification through several methods, including phone alert, web portal alert, 
email, and text alert. Deploying this capability helps ensure compliance. (See 
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/unified-communications/next-gen-karis-
law.html for more details.).  
● Release 15 introduces additional switches and routers for switch port tracking.  
Emergency Calling for National Suicide 
Prevention Lifeline 
● UCM supports dialing '988' calls, that are 3-digit dialing codes that will be routed to the 
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline centers. All telecommunication carriers and 
interconnected voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service providers will offer this service 
to connect with suicide prevention and mental health crisis personnel. This is in support 
of the FCC mandate of supporting a 3-digit dial code for Suicide Prevention Hotline that

--- PAGE 6 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 6 of 8 
came into effect from July 22, 2022. 
External Phone Number Mask ● In Unified Communications Manager, the External Phone Number can be masked for all 
configured line numbers for the latest phone models such as 78xx and 88xx. Existing 
phone models continue to display the External Phone Number Mask for the primary line. 
Inclusion of Organization Unit field in 
Certificates 
 
● The Organization Unit field is removed by default from the Certificate Signing request. You 
can choose Include OU in CSR option to include the Organization Unit field in the 
Certificate Signing Request. 
LSC Certificate Enrollment using EST ● Unified Communications Manager now includes Certificate Authority Proxy Function 
(CAPF) Online CA type “EST Supported CA” to support the automatic enrollment of 
certificates with CAs having inbuilt EST server mode. 
RedSky E911 Location Services Support 
 
● The RedSky solutions integrated with Unified Communications Manager allow the clients 
to have an active location URI for 9-1-1 emergency calling coverage for their entire 
workforce, whether on campus or remote, and send the calls to emergency responders. 
Secure Call Support for Parking Lot 
 
● Unified Communications Manager now handles the originating SRTP-only call as a secure 
call throughout, irrespective of the SRTP fallback option status. 
SRTP Cipher Mismatch with Media 
Streaming DevicesSRTP Cipher Mismatch 
with Media Streaming Devices 
 
● Unified Communications Manager now supports all crypto ciphers while exchanging call 
capabilities post Cisco IP Voice Media Streaming (IPVMS) devices (MOH, IVR, or 
Annunciator) after mid-call events, such as transfer or hold, from the remote side. 
* Available in release 15 only. 
 
Note:   Some features have dependency with the Webex App, Cisco Jabber, and Cisco Expressway™. For release 
compatibility with other products, refer Release 15’s Release Notes. 
Some features in the section above were also available in earlier SU versions of UCM 14. 
Cisco Webex Cloud-Connected UC (CCUC) features, like certificate management and analytics, are release agnostic. These 
features are compatible with CUCM and IM&P versions 11.5, 12.0, 12.5, 14 and 15 as well. Other CCUC features such as 
Operational Metrics (including operations dashboard, WebRTMT, Troubleshooting), Webex App provisioning for Unified 
CM Calling, Rich Presence for Webex App, Borderless CTI, Deployment Insights, CCUC Directory Service – Azure AD, 
Microsoft Teams Integration (Call History, Voicemail, Bi-directional presence) may have some release dependencies –check 
corresponding documentation information.  
Simplifying Release Number Scheme: Please note, for Cisco Unified Communications Manager v14 onwards, Cisco has 
adopted a whole number release numbering structure. There will be no (dot)releases, like (dot)5 in past version releases. 
Service Upgrade release will be published on top of the main release through its Software Maintenance cycle. 
Ordering Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 
● Starting with CUCM 12.0 and continuing with CUCM  15, only Smart Licensing is supported. Licenses are Smart 
Entitlements. Customers must create a Smart Account. For details on Smart Licensing refer to: 
● Cisco Smart Software Licensing – https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/software/smart-accounts/software-
licensing.html  
● Cisco Smart Software Manager – https://www.cisco.com/web/ordering/smart-software-manager/index.html  
● Cisco Smart Software Manager satellite – https://www.cisco.com/go/smartsatellite

--- PAGE 7 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 7 of 8 
● Cisco Smart Accounts – https://www.cisco.com/web/ordering/smart-software-manager/smart-accounts.html  
Cisco Unified Communications Manager software and user licenses are ordered through Flex, with the following options: 
A-Flex-3, A-Flex-3-EDU, or A-Flex-3-FEDRAMP. Refer the Flex 3.0 Ordering Guide for more details: 
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/partners/tools/collaboration-ordering-guides.html 
New purchase of Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 
Customers ordering Cisco Unified Communications Manager may select Calling Options under A-Flex-3, A-Flex-3-EDU, or A-
Flex-3-FEDRAMP. Choose the appropriate buying model—Enterprise Agreement (EA) or Named User (NU). Customers are 
required to select a UCM deployment option (on-premises, hosted, or UCM Cloud) as well as either Knowledge Worker or 
Named User (Professional, Enhanced, Access). Choose your software version. Refer to the Flex 3.0 Ordering Guide for full 
details: https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/partners/tools/collaboration-ordering-guides.html  
Upgrades with SWSS to Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 
Customers with Software Support Service (SWSS) should use My Cisco Entitlements (MCE) to order the Unified 
Communications 15 server software suite and upgrade licenses for the SWSS term. The Global Licensing Operations (GLO) 
team can assist customers in upgrading licenses if you experience any issues in the MCE conversion portal. Raise a GLO 
case at: https://mycase.cloudapps.cisco.com/case  
Upgrades without SWSS to Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 15 
Customers not adding SWSS and upgrading to Cisco Unified Communications Manager 15 may order an EA or NU option in 
Flex (A-Flex-3) and maintain their subscription. Customers are required to select a UCM deployment option (on-premises, 
hosted, or UCM Cloud) and Knowledge Worker or Named User (Professional, Enhanced, Access). Choose your software 
version. Refer to the Flex 3.0 Ordering Guide for full details: https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/partners/tools/collaboration-
ordering-guides.html  
 
Migrating Cisco Unified Communication Manager 10.x and newer versions (PLM-based 
licenses) to UCM 15 
● Customers must create a Smart Account and a Virtual Account before starting a migration or upgrade. For more details 
on Smart Accounts and Virtual Accounts, refer to: https://www.cisco.com/web/ordering/smart-software-
manager/smart-accounts.html  
● Migration to a smart license-enabled version is available only with an active SWSS contract  
● Moving from Version 10 and Version 11 classic licenses to Smart Licenses can be performed on Cisco Smart Software 
Manager (CSSM) and from the traditional License Registration Portal (LRP). These are self-service portals. 
● Two types of migration are supported:  
◦ PAK-based - Migration can be done for already fulfilled, partially fulfilled, and unfulfilled PAKs  
◦ Device-based - Can be used to convert Cisco Prime License Manager (PLM)-based licenses to smart entitlements  
● PAKs or devices (PLM) can be assigned to a Smart Account and Virtual Account in LRP and then converted to Smart 
Licenses. Select your version (15, 14 or 12).  
● The Global Licensing Operations (GLO) team can assist customers in converting classic licenses if they experience any 
issues in the self-service conversion portal on LRP or CSSM. Raise a GLO case at: 
https://mycase.cloudapps.cisco.com/case

--- PAGE 8 ---
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 8 of 8 
IM&P Deployment Specifications 
You can deploy Cisco Unified Communications Manager IM and Presence Service in various configurations, depending on 
the number of devices and data center requirements, through the Cisco UCS virtual model, which offers deployment 
choice and scaling flexibility. 
For Centralized IM&P deployment, refer to:  
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/voice_ip_comm/cucm/im_presence/configAdminGuide/15_0/cup0_b_config-
and-admin-guide-15/cup0_b_config-and-admin-guide-1401_chapter_01000.html . 
To help you choose the correct IMP VM configuration, see 'IM and Presence Service Deployment Sizing' in 'Configuration 
and Admin' at: https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/unified-communications/unified-presence/products-installation-
and-configuration-guides-list.html.  
Supported Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) and their associated characteristics (vCPU, vRAM, vDISK, and vNIC) can be 
found at: https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en/us/td/docs/voice_ip_comm/uc_system/virtualization/virtualization-cisco-
ucm-im-presence.html.  
Cisco Capital 
Flexible payment solutions to help you achieve your objectives 
Cisco Capital® makes it easier to get the right technology to achieve your objectives, enable business transformation, and 
help you stay competitive. We can help you reduce the total cost of ownership, conserve capital, and accelerate growth. In 
more than 100 countries, our flexible payment solutions can help you acquire hardware, software, services, and 
complementary third-party equipment in easy, predictable payments. Learn more. 
For more information 
For more information on installation or upgrading from older versions of Unified Communications Manager, visit: 
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/unified-communications/unified-communications-manager-
callmanager/products-installation-guides-list.html?dtid=osscdc000283.  
To view Unified Communications preferred architecture guides, visit: 
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/voice_ip_comm/uc_system/design/guides/PAdocs.html?dtid=osscdc000283. 
 
 
Printed in USA Cxx-xxxxxx-xx 01/24